Link to Ableton Live: [Live](https://www.ableton.com/en/live/)

Link to Abeltion Live Learning Resources: [Learn Live](https://www.ableton.com/en/live/learn-live/)

Link to Ableton Help: [Ableton Support](https://www.ableton.com/en/help/)

Ableton Live, also known as Live or sometimes colloquially as "Ableton", is a digital audio workstation for macOS and
Windows developed by the German company Ableton.

In contrast to many other software sequencers, Live is designed to be an instrument for live performances as well as a
tool for composing, recording, arranging, mixing, and mastering. It is also used by DJs, as it offers a suite of
controls for beatmatching, crossfading, and other different effects used by turntablists, and was one of the first music
applications to automatically beatmatch songs.

Live is available directly from Ableton in three editions: Intro (with limited key features), Standard, and Suite (with
the most features). Suite includes Max for Live functionality, made possible in partnership with Cycling '74.

Ableton has also made a fourth version of Live, Lite, with similar limitations to Intro, which is only available bundled
with a range of music production hardware, including MIDI controllers and audio interfaces

Live was created by Gerhard Behles, Robert Henke and Bernd Roggendorf in the mid-1990s. Henke left Ableton in 2016 to
concentrate on his artistic project Monolake. Behles and Henke met while studying programming at the Technical
University of Berlin, and wrote software in the music programming language Max to perform techno as their band Monolake.
Henke and Behles identified a need in Berlin's electronic music scene for user-friendly software for live performances,
and worked with local acts to develop it. Though Live was not developed in Max, Max was used to prototype most of its
features.

Henke said later of Live's creation, "I think the feeling we had was [that] there was enough like-minded people in our
closer community who could appreciate a product like this, and that it could work commercially. That gave us confidence
to believe that a small company could actually survive on the market." He said one of the first industry figures to
recognise Live's potential was the Hollywood composer Hans Zimmer, who was impressed by Live's ability to change the
tempo of a loop without altering its pitch. Roggendorf, another programmer, joined Behles and Henke in the late 90s
and helped them turn their Max patches into a general set of software for retail. They released the first commercial
version of Live on October 30, 2001.

Unlike Pro Tools, which focuses on multitrack recording, the first version of Live was designed for performing live with
loops. It offered sophisticated tools for triggering loops, playing samples and time stretching audio, and was
immediately popular with electronic music producers. Live's time stretching algorithm, known as "Warping", was
particularly notable and gave DJs greater control over mixing and beatmatching, smoothly blending tracks of different
tempos.

Live expanded to become a DAW with a MIDI sequencer and support for virtual studio technology (VST).

In 2010, Ableton introduced Max for Live, enabling connectivity between Max and Live. Live made it easier for
musicians to use computers as instruments in live performance without programming their own software, influencing the
rise of global festival culture in the 2000s.