Link to Digital Performer: [MOTU DP](https://motu.com/en-us/products/software/dp/)

Link to MOTU Support: [motu.com/techsupport](https://motu.com/techsupport)

Digital Performer is a digital audio workstation and music sequencer software package published by Mark of the
Unicorn (MOTU) of Cambridge, Massachusetts for the Apple Macintosh and Microsoft Windows platforms.

In 1984, Mark of the Unicorn released Professional Composer, one of the first application programs for the Apple
Macintosh. The program used the Macintosh's high-resolution graphics and printing to allow the user to print
professional quality music scores.

In 1985, the company released a music sequencer named Performer, also based on the Macintosh platform, for
arranging and performing with synthesizers and other devices which recognized the then-newly developed MIDI
standard. Sending a series of numerical values, such a sequencer could direct many instruments, commanding which
notes to play, at what loudness, and for how long to sustain them. There are many deep features in the MIDI
protocol; MOTU developed extended capabilities in Digital Performer for handling these controllers and other
actions (including remote operation of the software itself) through user-customizable graphical consoles, allowing
the operator direct access to deeper features of instruments, stage lighting and various types of machines, all via
MIDI interfaces and custom graphic buttons and sliders.

In 1990, MOTU added the ability to synchronise audio (digital audio) to Performer and released it as "Digital
Performer," months after Opcode added this capability to Vision. Digital Performer was originally designed as a
front-end to Digidesign's Audiomedia hard disk recording system, which later became Pro Tools. Digital Performer's
specific appeal was its MIDI environment, which was fitted into the same transport system as the audio environment.
This enabled users to record their MIDI instruments and mix the results with other live audio recorded in the
studio (or vice versa). Personal computers of this time were too slow to handle high quality recording via their
own CPU, so the addition of Digital signal processing co-processor cards was necessary to create a functioning
audio recording studio. As the Mac's CPU became powerful enough to record the digitized audio directly to hard disk,
the DSP cards were gradually rendered unnecessary. Foreseeing this, MOTU created its own Motu Audio System (MAS)
which helped Digital Performer to tap the Macintosh's native power to record music directly to its own hard drive
without the need for external co-processing and dedicated drives. By 2000, Digital Performer allowed users to
record, mix, and master audio for commercial releases.