Link to Waveform Free: [Tracktion Waveform Free](https://www.tracktion.com/products/waveform-free)

Link to Waveform Pro: [Tracktion Waveform Pro](https://www.tracktion.com/products/waveform-pro)

Link to Tracktion Manuals: [Tracktion Software Manuals](https://www.tracktion.com/training/manuals)

Link to Tracktion Training Videos: [Training Videos](https://www.tracktion.com/training/videos)

Tracktion (now known as Waveform) is a digital audio workstation for recording and editing audio and MIDI. The
software is cross-platform, that runs on Apple macOS, Microsoft Windows, and Linux.

Tracktion was developed by independent UK designer/programmer Julian Storer, and released in 2002 by UK-based Raw
Material Software. US-based Mackie is a division of LOUD Technologies specializing in studio recording and live
sound products. It took over the distribution of Tracktion in 2003. It was sold in standalone, boxed retail
versions and bundled with Mackie, Tapco, and Echo Audio computer-audio interfaces and digital-capable mixing boards.

Although no official word came from Mackie, the user's understanding was that Tracktion had been discontinued as the
company issued no updates, communication, or announcements on it since January 2008. However, at the January 2013
NAMM show, Tracktion's original developer Julian Storer announced he had reacquired control of the software and
would continue developing Tracktion with his new Tracktion Software Company.

Tracktion was designed to be transparent and intuitive. Track object controls and parameters are context-sensitive;
effects, MIDI instruments, and other software objects can be added to tracks or even applied directly to individual
audio and MIDI clips using a drag-and-drop system of filters. Complex chains of filters can be created, stored, and
recalled for later use as rack effects, which can be thought of as analogous to a saved channel strip setting in a
traditional DAW/sequencer.

Tracktion represented a move away from the modal dialog boxes, multiple menus, and cluttered windows common to most
legacy MIDI sequencers and digital audio workstations, in favor of a streamlined, single-screen approach that
presented the user with only the options they needed at any time, such as editing audio, adjusting MIDI automation
parameters, and effects settings. In this way, Tracktion is often compared to Ableton Live. Although, Live has two
separate work areas (Session and Arrange), Tracktion has fully context-sensitive windows that automatically appear
or hide depending on the current tasks. Both are also notable for their more abstract visual styles, rather than
trying to replicate "real world" recording equipment or effects boxes.

Tracktion's other innovations, later emulated by most other DAWs, were the development of "freeze", the ability to
convert a MIDI instrument track to audio to free up RAM and CPU; and an inline MIDI editor that allowed MIDI to be
edited in-track rather than in a separate window or dedicated editor. It was also the first DAW to adopt a fully
vector-based, resizable interface.